# app-cocohub

### What is app-cocohub?

This is project generator for COCOHub's crowdsourced translation service. It automates the creation of translation
projects on COCOHub, and to do this it standardizes the data formats that a translation project uses. We use this in
order to spend time only on the collection and verification of data, not on the minutiae of editing the same html 
templates to change a few words, a task that is rather easy to automate.

## How do I use it?

To use this repository's tools effectively, you'll need to decide if you want to use the frontend+API, or the API 
alone. In both cases, you'll need an API key that you can obtain by going to your user settings at this url:

`https://cocohub.cc/account/<your-username>/update` and reset your API key. With that, you may continue to the next steps.

### What you'll need

1. A COCOHub API key (obtained above).

2. You'll need a `project.json` file, containing the following keys: `name`, `short_name`, `description`.
   + `name` is the name of your project. An example is "Afrikaans Language Project", here: https://cocohub.cc/project/Afrikaans/
   + `short_name` is what will be used in the project's URL. For exmaple "Afrikaans" in the URL above.
   + `description` is a description of the project, i.e. what will be used in the project's overview.

3. This step is where data is added to the project. You'll need CSV file containing the sentences you'd like to translate, 
   and their identifiers which will help to keep track of the data generated by your community after your 
   translation project is complete. To enable some automation of tasks for our projects, we need a consistent format for the 
   colums in this CSV file, so we have set up the following convention for column names:

   + `question`: This is usually the text "What is the <language> translation of this sentence?", but may be written
      in any way you like, including in the source language of your project, for cultural consistency.

   + `id`: This is a numeric identifier, unique to the project and may be parallel across projects within the COCOHub category 
      i.e. within the ["Crowd Translation"](https://cocohub.cc/project/category/crowdtranslation/) category, the same id in 
      another language's project will point to the same sentence in the source language, which in the "Crowd Translation" 
      case, is English.

   + `caption`: This is the text to be translated. Each row of your CSV will have a different sentence.
 
 With these three things, we're on our way to creating your first translation project on cocohub.cc!
 
 ### Using the provided scripts
 TODO
